welcome to the third section of hands-on
continuous integration and automation
with Jenkins in this section we are
going to look at key DevOps concepts
like continuous integration CI
continuous delivery CD and continuous
deployment and explore differences and
similarities between them the practical
part of this section is to build a
continuous integration workflow using
github Jenkins and slack let's start by
looking at CI and CD in this video we
will learn what continuous integration
CI continuous delivery CD and continuous
deployment are and we will compare and
contrast them in order to better
understand these concepts we'll also
look at the main benefits of CI and CD
so that you can convince your manager to
give you time and resources to implement
these DevOps processes there is no
practical part in this video but we will
soon put into practice what we learn
here in the next videos of this section
let's start with continuous integration
continuous integration OC I ensured can
be defined as a software development
practice whereby members of a team
integrate build and test their code
frequently in a development environment
this diagram taken from martin fowler's
website who contributed to popularized
the term continuous integration
illustrates three main principles of a
CI workflow first developers work on a
shared code base under version control
and commit frequently ideally once a day
second a commit triggers an automatic
build and test process third if
something fails or breaks it is fixed
quickly by whoever broke the build or
the test suite this diagram shows a
typical CI workflow the process starts
from a commit into the source control
system this change initiates a CI
process and triggers a CI server like
Jenkins
the CI server starts a build runs the
test suite and reports back to the
development team via a notification
email chat channel shared build monitor
etc then the process starts again with
another commit into the source control
system either to develop a new feature
or to fix a broken build or a failing
test resulting from the previous process
here are some benefits of using
continuous integration for software
development in terms of code quality ci
allows to spot bugs as soon as they are
spotted and hence to fix them more
quickly in terms of integration CI
reduces risks time and costs generally
due to complex integration with other
systems in terms of automation ci
removes manual steps makes the build
process faster and less error-prone and
avoids the classic but a work on my
machine issue and other dependency
problems that many developers experience
when they integrate their code on a
shared system now let's move to CD this
acronym is usually assigned to
continuous delivery but can also be used
to define continuous deployment which is
as we will see very soon an extension of
continuous delivery by continuous
delivery we define a software
development practice whereby a team
builds a software in such a way that it
can be released to production at any
time in other words the software is
automatically built tested and
integrated in a production like system
it is always in a shippable state and is
only a step away from a real deployment
to production in continuous delivery the
deployment to production is usually done
on demand when business requirements
request a new release as you can see in
the diagram the last step of the process
is the only difference between
continuous delivery and continuous
deployment in fact continuous deployment
can be considered as continuous delivery
on
roads every change that creates a fully
shippable build gets automatically
pushed to production thus generating
every day many deployments to production
the full software lifecycle is
completely automated if you need to
convince your manager to move to CD here
are some benefits of CD that are very
appealing for both technical and
non-technical people in terms of
business CD allows to release a product
or a new feature to market much more
quickly than traditional deployment
practices this allows to react faster to
changes in the market and to adapt to
changing user and business needs for
software engineers City provides a
faster software lifecycle process
allowing to see a new feature ship to
production in a shorter timeframe CD
also produces software which is always
ready to be shipped to production it
also avoids the risks associated with
big bang releases when lots of big
changes are made as a result risk time
and cost of deployment to production are
reduced not to mention the peace of mind
of an easy deployment so how do CI and
CD compare these concepts are closely
related and can be conceptually
represented with nested circles the
starting point is continuous integration
this is the base of the other two
processes in other words a software team
cannot do continuous delivery if it
doesn't implement continuous integration
first the same stands for continuous
deployment the team first needs to
implement continuous delivery and can
then move to continuous deployment as
you can see this is a gradual journey
you can't just start with continuous
deployment this is the end of this video
where we learned key concepts like CI
and CD and look at the differences
similarities and benefits watch the next
video where we will start setting up a
CI workflow